README.md, before:

# LUNA

**Satellite Imagery Intelligence Platform**

Luna is a modern frontend for accessing and analyzing satellite imagery from multiple providers. Search archives, execute studies, and visualize results with an intuitive, map-first interface.

Built with SvelteKit 5, Skeleton UI, Tailwind CSS, and OpenLayers.

## ✨ New Redesign

Luna has been completely redesigned with a modern UI/UX! See **[REDESIGN.md](./REDESIGN.md)** for:
- Feature overview and usage guide
- Technical architecture
- Design principles
- Migration notes

### Key Features

- 🗺️ **Interactive Mapping** - Draw areas of interest with Point/Polygon tools
- 🛰️ **Multi-Provider Search** - Query multiple satellite providers simultaneously
- 📊 **Study Execution** - Run analyses like tree coverage, wind speed detection
- ⚡ **Real-Time Status** - Track searches and studies with live updates
- 🎯 **Smart Filtering** - Filter by resolution, cloud coverage, sensor type
- 📈 **Results Visualization** - Interactive maps with imagery thumbnails and metadata

## Local Development

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose
- Bun (optional, for local development without Docker)

### Quick Start

1. **Copy environment file**
   ```bash
   cp example.env .env
   ```

2. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   docker compose up
   ```

3. **Access the application**
   - http://localhost:5173

## Production Build

```bash
docker compose build
```

Production build outputs to `build/` directory and runs with:
```bash
bun run build/index.js
```

## Environment Variables

See `example.env` for configuration:

- `LUNA_AUGUR_HOST` - Backend API URL for Augur services
- `PUBLIC_*` - Public environment variables accessible in the browser

## Troubleshooting

**Clean up and restart:**
```bash
docker compose down
docker compose up --build
```

**View logs:**
```bash
docker compose logs -f sveltekit-web
```

Commit message:

Refactor environment configuration and API handling to streamline backend connectivity, enhance error management, and improve user experience across the application. Update README and example.env for clarity on required variables and architecture.

README.md, after:

# LUNA

**Satellite Imagery Intelligence Platform**

Luna is a modern frontend for accessing and analyzing satellite imagery from multiple providers. Search archives, execute studies, and visualize results with an intuitive, map-first interface.

Built with SvelteKit 5, Skeleton UI, Tailwind CSS, and OpenLayers.

## ✨ New Redesign

Luna has been completely redesigned with a modern UI/UX! See **[REDESIGN.md](./REDESIGN.md)** for:
- Feature overview and usage guide
- Technical architecture
- Design principles
- Migration notes

### Key Features

- 🗺️ **Interactive Mapping** - Draw areas of interest with Point/Polygon tools
- 🛰️ **Multi-Provider Search** - Query multiple satellite providers simultaneously
- 📊 **Study Execution** - Run analyses like tree coverage, wind speed detection
- ⚡ **Real-Time Status** - Track searches and studies with live updates
- 🎯 **Smart Filtering** - Filter by resolution, cloud coverage, sensor type
- 📈 **Results Visualization** - Interactive maps with imagery thumbnails and metadata

## Local Development

### Prerequisites
- Docker & Docker Compose
- Bun (optional, for local development without Docker)

### Quick Start

1. **Copy environment file**
   ```bash
   cp example.env .env
   ```

2. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   docker compose up
   ```

3. **Access the application**
   - http://localhost:5173

## Production Build

```bash
docker compose build
```

Production build outputs to `build/` directory and runs with:
```bash
bun run build/index.js
```

## Environment Variables

See `example.env` for configuration:

### Required Variables

- **`LUNA_AUGUR_HOST`** (Required) - Backend API URL for Augur services
  - In Docker: `http://augur-service:8000`
  - In Kubernetes: `http://augur-service.default.svc.cluster.local:8000`
  - **The application will fail to start if this is not set** (no fallback for production safety)

### Architecture

Luna uses an **internal proxy pattern** where all API requests go through Luna's server-side routes (`/api/*`) before reaching Augur. This means:

- ✅ Backend URLs never exposed to browser
- ✅ Kubernetes-ready with internal service DNS
- ✅ Easy to add auth, caching, or rate limiting at proxy layer
- ✅ Single point for monitoring all API traffic
- ✅ Fail-fast configuration validation

**No public environment variables** are used for backend connectivity - everything is server-side only.

## Troubleshooting

**Clean up and restart:**
```bash
docker compose down
docker compose up --build
```

**View logs:**
```bash
docker compose logs -f sveltekit-web
```
